## DYVEP
Databases are growing continuously and making it costly to retrieve the data due to large number of disk I/O’s necessary. Although if we optimize the database for efficiency in the beginning, as the time passes it losses efficiency due to different query patterns.  This leads to the necessity of tuning the database every now and then, when the performance falls below a certain level. One mechanism by which we can reduce the query cost is by decreasing the number of disk I/O by partitioning a database. A partition is a logical division of a database or its associates into discrete independent parts. 

Dynamic partitioning algorithm doesn’t require user intervention. The database will have an initial configuration on which the queries will be run. The algorithm monitors the database continuously using some performance metrics, and triggers the partitioning algorithm to repartition when the performance falls below a specific threshold. The following section talks about the existing techniques/algorithms of both the static and dynamic types. One such algorithm is DYVEP(Dynamic Vertical Paritioning).

DYVEP consists of 3 modules which are:

- Statistic Collector: This module collects all the information about the queries. When the algorithm is implemented for the first time in the database, the statistic collector generates the attribute table, query table, attribute usage table, attribute affinity table and clustered affinity table. After the initialization, Statistic Collector gets all the queries that are running along with their frequencies. If the query does not exist in the query table, it assigns an id and description and stores it in the Query Table. If the query is already available, then it increases the frequency of that particular query by 1. If all the queries running are stored in the Query Table then it triggers the next module, Vertical Partitioning Algorithm. 

- Vertical Partitioning Algorithm (VPA): After all the statistics are recorded from the statistic recorder, VPA chooses the best Vertical Partitioning Scheme. The VPA generates attribute affinity matrix from attribute usage matrix. The rows and columns of the affinity matrix are permuted using Bond energy algorithm and pushes the numerically larger values together, thereby reducing the number of queries accessing both the partitions and determines the optimal binary vertical partitioning schema. It then triggers the Partitioning Generator.

- Partitioning Generator: This module brings the newly generated Vertical Partitioning Scheme into existence and thus deletes the existing fragments and creates new ones. The generated fragments are then used as indexes, wherein the Database uses those fragments whenever a query is being executed. Changing the definition of queries is not needed to use these fragments and thus the usage helps in increasing the transparency to the users of the database.  
